I think it was around about five years
old that I first decided I wanted to
study sharks I think that was when I
started to pester my mom about what I
really wanted to do maybe she didn't
think anything would come of it I don't
know my name is dr. Janice poppers got
my two I'm PhD in zoology but my
specialty are large marine animals
particularly sharks
I remember the first time I saw a shark
in the wild I just swam towards it as
fast as I could like this 20 years of
something I'd wanted to see and I
finally got to see one
my main area research is developing new
electronic tags that I put on shocks
that tell us different things about what
those animals are doing
[Music]
when I first started my scientific
career the technology was allowing us to
track fishes and sharks and understand
where they would go and went and
obviously we learn a huge amount using
those tools but I always kind of felt
that for a knowledge standpoint out
which kind of reaching at that time I
really wanted to understand why they
were doing the things we see so I
started looking into alternative
technology it could measure the
acceleration of the animal or its swim
speed or we could put video cameras on
those animals as you see what they're
seeing if we understand why an animal
uses a certain habitat then we can
actually forecast and make prediction as
to what it should do in a different
location just because in areas protected
the sharks themselves don't actually
know that they're within a protected
zone there's no underwater wolf stopping
them from leaving that protected area
they're going across different
geopolitical boundaries they'll go into
areas where there may be a lot fewer
regulations
to me I haven't finished or reached my
angle until I published a scientific
paper on that one I treated the same way
I would if I was writing a novel most of
the public aren't going to be reading
scientific journals so I treated as a
story I'm trying to tell the public is a
lot more supportive about conservation
of sharks and they were 10 20 years ago
when they just considered man-eaters and
no one really cared if they were being
killed
[Music]
the drive that keeps me infinitely
sharks is that I'm always finding out
new things about them as technology
improves we have better tools to answer
the questions we want to answer but what
you find is when you answer a question
it often generates five or ten more I
can't imagine not doing research or not
being able to dive so I'm going to keep
on doing both for as long as I can
you